# PAFF
PAFF: A Progression-Aware Fusion Framework on Pseudo-Paired Data for Prognostic Prediction in Hepatocellular Carcinoma 


## Abstract
Cirrhosis is a critical precursor stage of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Although the progression pathway from cirrhosis to HCC holds potential to provide valuable insights for prognostic prediction in HCC, previous studies have largely overlooked this progression information. Moreover, it is challenged to collect long-term follow-up paired data in clinical settings for investigation of the progression information. To address these limitations, we propose a progression-aware fusion framework (PAFF) that constructs pseudo-paired data and extracts progression information to improve prediction performance. In PAFF, an optimal transport matching strategy based on hepatic function propensity scores and latent features encoded by autoencoder is firstly performed on separate cirrhosis and HCC datasets to construct pseudo-paired data. Secondly, progressive fusion is employed to deeply integrate cirrhosis and HCC information to form implicit progression information. Thirdly, the implicit progression information is explicitly extracted in the proposed content-aware manner , where cirrhosis information serves as a query reference for the progressively fused tokens. Finally, the explicit progression information is combined with imaging and clinical information to achieve prognostic prediction. This study includes over 2,000 subjects in total, with 896 HCC subjects having complete follow-up records. Moreover, PAFF is evaluated on an independent testing set  to assess its robustness. PAFF represents a novel approach that leverages progression information for HCC prognostic prediction without requiring paired data.  This framework not only improves prognostic performance but also introduces a new information source beyond conventional imaging and clinical information.

## Note
The source code will be open-sourced upon manuscript acceptance.
